.TH RTRACE-GRAPHS-FUNCTION 1 "2010-08-03" "sp-rtrace"
.SH NAME
rtrace-graphs-function - create graph of allocs in rtrace report
.SH SYNOPSIS
rtrace-graphs-function <function name> <limit> <rtrace traces>
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIrtrace-graphs-function\fP generates graphs of unfreed resource
allocations  going through the given function for all the given trace files.
.PP
Limit is how much of the total allocations need to go through the given
function for a function to be shown in the graphs.  Good values for
the argument are 0.1 - 2, depending on the trace file contents.
.PP
\fIrtrace-graphs-function\fP script uses \fIsp-rtrace-resolve\fP to resolve
the addresses in backtraces to function names (if the binaries/libraries
contain debug symbols), \fIrtrace-calltree\fP to analyse the data and \fIdot\fP
(from GraphViz) to create the graph from the \fIrtrace-calltree\fP output.
.PP
The graphs are saved to a subdirectory with the given function name.
To re-generate the files, just remove the directory.
.PP
If you want to modify what details are filtered, you can just call
\fIrtrace-calltree\fP (and \fIdot\fP) directly with options suitably
modified from the ones (shown to be) used by this script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sp-rtrace (1),
.IR sp-rtrace-postproc (1),
.IR rtrace-graphs-overview (1),
.IR rtrace-calltree (1),
.IR dot (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007,2010 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
