.TH RTRACE-CALLTREE 1 "2010-11-01" "sp-rtrace"
.SH NAME
rtrace-calltree - post-processing for rtrace reports
.SH SYNOPSIS
rtrace-calltree [options] <rtrace report>  >  report.[txt|dot|html]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIrtrace-calltree\fP can produce different reports from rtrace
resource allocation/deallocation reports.
From these reports you can see for example which of the functions
account for most of the resource usage and how
the resource allocations are divided between the functions they call.
Rtrace report is sp-rtrace report post-processed with -c[l]r
option.
.PP
\fIrtrace-calltree\fP works by accumulating the allocations upwards in
the backtrace calltrees.  Each function is a node in the allocation
graph. Once all allocations are propagated to the functions from
which the calls to the allocation function originated, the information
is output in the requested format.  Bactrace items which have just
addresses instead of function/method names are ignored.
.SH OUTPUT REPORT TYPES
\fIrtrace-calltree\fP supports several different output report types:
.TP
\fBstats\fP
(ASCII) allocation histogram and allocation statistics. This is the
default report type and typically needs much less memory than the
\fIrtrace-timeline\fP graphical histogram generation.
.PP
(\fIrtrace-timeline\fP intermediate data structures need to store every
allocation and deallocation record separately whereas \fIrtrace-calltree\fP
stores only allocation sizes.)
.PP
Useful for detecting inefficient data structure usage in code which
can be analyzed further by using the --size-range option with
the callgraph output.
.TP
\fBgraph\fP
A callgraph of backtraces through which most of the allocations are
done. This is probably the most interesting report, but you normally
need to specify quite a lot of additional options to get exactly what
you want.  Using this will be explained more in detail with the (PDF)
analysis document coming with the \fIsp-rtrace\fP package.
.PP
Note that number of called functions and amount of allocations do not
always match exactly between caller and called functions.  This can be
for several reasons, either the backtraces were not deep enough to go
up to main, there were debug symbols missing to get proper backtraces
or --show-below-limit=no option was used.
.PP
Graphs are output in \fIdot\fP format.  You will need GraphViz package
to generate PostScript, SVG, PNG etc. formats out of them.
.TP
\fBtopmost\fP
Output a graph of topmost allocations backtraces.
.PP
Note that the count and total size of allocations listed in this graph
is for all the backtraces in the trace file, not just for the ones
included into \fItopmost\fP graph.
.TP
\fBhtml\fP
Output hyperlinked backtraces sorted according to allocation sizes
(as percentage of total allocs).  Pretty much obsoleted by the callgraph
output.
.PP
The output is similar to earlier \fIvalgrind\fP Massif plugin output
(current Massif gives ASCII callgraphs), but the content differs;
Massif offers a bottom-up "space*time" view to all allocations within
(whole) application life-time. Rtrace and \fIrtrace-calltree\fP can
offer both top-down and bottom-up views to all (e.g. non-freed)
allocations between specified points of time in the application
life-cycle.  Allocation life-time is not taken into account when
sorting the backtraces.
.SH REPORT OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--type\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Value is one of the above report types.
.TP
\fB--stat\fPs=\fIvalue\fP (stats report)
Value is either "count" or "total" depending on whether you want
the histogram to show graphically the number of the given sized
allocations or how much they take memory (with the estimated
C-library allocation overhead).
.TP
\fB--depth\fP=\fIvalue\fP (topmost report)
Depth value is an integer (1-99), in topmost report it specifies
how many of the traces to highest allocations are shown. Default
is 3.
.TP
\fB--direction\fP=\fIvalue\fP (graph and html reports)
The report direction value is either \'tb' for top to bottom
(i.e. from main() towards malloc()) or 'bt' for bottom to top
(i.e. from malloc() towards main()).  Default is 'tb'.
.TP
\fB--emph-limit\fP=\fIvalue\fP (graph report)
Value (1.0-100) is used to indicate that function nodes responsible for
more than the given percentage of total allocations should be emphasized.
Default is 60.0.
.TP
\fB--own-alloc-limit\fP=\fIvalue\fP (graph report)
value is a factor (1.1 - 10) used to indicate how much single node needs
to do more allocations than all of its children together for it to be
emphatized.  Only nodes whose allocations go over the --emph-limit
value are checked for this. Default is 1.2.
.TP
\fB--cluster\fP=\fIvalue\fP (graph report)
Value is the name for the library or code file which nodes should be
clustered together.
.PP
Note: this option is useless with recursive backtraces, for UI applications
you should use also --ignore-glib/gtk/qt-internals=yes.
.SH OPTIONS FOR FILTERING INCLUDED ALLOCATIONS
If you want to dig more into information provided by the timeline
script and allocation histogram, you can select just a subset
of the traced allocations to the report.  Options for doing that are:
.TP
\fB--size-range\fP=\fI[smallest]\fP-\fI[largest]\fP
Values are sizes of the smallest and largest allocations that will
be included to the report.
.SH OPTIONS FOR FILTERING BACKTRACE CONTENT
Programs doing a lot of allocations with complex backtraces produce
so much data that you really cannot analyse it without reducing the
amount of data.  Options for doing that are:
.TP
\fB--limit\fP=\fIvalue\fP (graph and html reports)
The given value (0.1-100) is a minimum percentage of how much
of the allocations need to go through the given function for it
to get included.  Default is 10.0.
.PP
Note: If you decrease this with the 'html' report, --stop use
is recommended as the generated HTML output can be very large
(even gigabytes although rtrace report was megabytes).  For
"graph" report, there are additional options for reducing
the amount of output, see the filtering options.
.TP
\fB--show-below-limit\fP=\fIno\fP
Do not show nodes summarizing how many called nodes were below
the specified (or default) limit (see --limit option).  Because
their share of allocs is still counted in the shown nodes, this
means that the values shown in the callgraph won't add up
(which can confuse people reading the callgraph).
.TP
\fB--stop\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Value is a string prefix of node name where each backtrace parsing
stops.  Using something like following could make Gtk memory
allocation graphs more readable (or you could use
just --ignore-gtk-internals=yes):
.br
		--stop=g_cclosure_marshal --stop=_gtk_marshal
.TP
\fB--include-only\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Value is a string prefix for node names for backtraces that should be
included into reports.  All backtraces \fBnot\fP containing a node
name starting with this substring are ignored.
.TP
\fB--ignore\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Value is a string prefix for node names which should be ignored in the
backtraces.  Useful for making graphs more readable. Use --verbose to
see what is ignored by the shortcut options below after enabling them.
.TP
\fB--ignore-middle\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Like --ignore, but given substring is for any part of the function names
(slower, but useful e.g. with template functions as their names are
prefixed with a changing return type).
.TP
\fB--no-ignore\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Value is a string prefix for node names that should be kept in the
backtraces although they were matched by --ignore or --ignore-middle.
.TP
\fB--ignore-font-allocs\fP=\fIyes\fP
Shortcut to ignore lower level freetype and fontconfig allocation functions.
.TP
\fB--ignore-libc-allocs\fP=\fIyes\fP
Shortcut to ignore lower level C-library and C++ allocation functions
to make graphs more readable.
.TP
\fB--ignore-glib-internals\fP=\fIyes\fP
Shortcut to ignore several lowest level allocation, standard data
structure handling and recursed functions called by Glib programs.
You might want to try also these options:
.nf
		--leafs=no
		--intermediate=no
		--show-below-limit=no
		--ignore=dcgettext
		--ignore=tsearch
		--join=ld-<version>
.fi
.TP
\fB--ignore-gtk-internals\fP=\fIyes\fP
Shortcut to ignore several recursed functions called by Gtk
applications.  You might want to try also these options:
.nf
		--ignore-libc-allocs
		--ignore-font-allocs
		--ignore=gtk_widget_
		--no-ignore=gtk_widget_show
		--ignore=gdk_window_
		--ignore=_gdk_window_
		--join=fontconfig
.fi
.TP
\fB--ignore-qt-internals\fP=\fIyes\fP
Shortcut to ignore lower level Qt allocation, standard data
structure handling and marshalling/recursed functions called by Qt
applications.  You might want to try also these options:
.nf
		--ignore-glib-internals=yes
		--join=qt_format_text
.fi
.TP
\fB--join\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Value is the name for the function, library or source
code file which nodes should be represented as a single node.
.TP
\fB--intermediate\fP=\fIno\fP
Leave out nodes with only one parent and child.
.TP
\fB--leafs\fP=\fIno\fP
Leave out nodes which have either one parent and no children, or
one child and no parents.
.TP
\fB--trace-args\fP=\fIyes\fP
Show trace function (1st) argument instead of its name. This can be
used e.g. to see file names in file descriptor traces.
.PP
Options --stop, --ignore, --include-only, --join and --cluster
can be given as many times as you wish and they apply to all
values you gave. For all the other options, only the last value
applies.
.SH REDUCING GRAPH SIZE BY MINIMIZING THE NODE SIZES
To remove function and method arguments, pipe output through:
.nf
		sed -e 's/([^0-9)][^)]*)/()/' -e 's/)(.[^)]*)//'
.fi
To remove also source file names and line numbers, add:
.nf
		-e 's/ at [^ \\\\]*//'
.fi
To remove also paths from the --trace-args file names, add:
.nf
		-e 's%/.*[^ ]/%%'
.fi
.PP
If you want to reduce node width without removing any of
the information, just split the source code file name and
line number to a separate line:
.nf
		sed -e 's/ at /\\\\nat /' -e 's/ in /\\\\nin /'
.fi
.SH DEBUG OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--node\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Show internal information about given node. This option can be given
as many as times as needed. '*' will show information about all nodes.
.TP
\fB--progress\fP=\fIyes\fP
Show running parsed alloc/free record index number.
.TP
\fB--show-references\fP=\fIyes\fP
Show what other nodes refer nodes specified with the --node option.
.TP
\fB--verbose\fP=\fIyes\fP
Show more information about rtrace-calltree internal working.
.SH LIMITATIONS / TODOS
Currently user needs to generate each report type separately,
\fIrtrace-calltree\fP cannot create multiple reports in the same run.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sp-rtrace (1),
.IR rtrace-timeline (1),
.IR rtrace-graphs-function (1),
.IR rtrace-graphs-overview (1),
.IR valgrind (1),
.IR dot (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007,2010 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
