.TH SP-RTRACE 1 "2012-06-08" "sp-rtrace"
.SH NAME
rtrace-start - launch programs with sp-rtrace to trace them
.SH SYNOPSIS
rtrace-start \fI<options>\fP [-x \fI<binary>\fP [\fI<arg>\fP] ... [\fI<arg>\fP]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsp-rtrace\fP is a resource consumption tracing manager and data pre-processor.
\fIrtrace-start\fP is a wrapper script to start programs under sp-rtrace.
It should support all current sp-rtrace features.
.PP
The advantage of starting sp-rtrace through it instead of directly
with sp-rtrace, is that even in non-managed mode sp-rtrace is started
to background and the traced program remains on foreground.  Therefore
the started program always retains the terminal, reacts to key input
and signals as expected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\fI-x\fP \fI<binary and its args>\fP
What program to start for tracing.  If this isn't given, \fIrtrace-start\fP
just exports the environment variables (LD_PRELOAD etc) that set up
sp-rtrace tracing according to the other given options.
.PP
For the other options, see \fIsp-rtrace\fP manual page.
.SH FUTURE
Eventually some subset of the current sp-rtrace option handling will
most likely be removed and this script will be the only supported way
to handle them. Because these options are transferred to sp-rtrace
through environment variables, you may use sp-rtrace also just by
exporting the environment variables set by this script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sp-rtrace (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
