.TH SP-RTRACE 1 "2012-01-23" "sp-rtrace"
.SH NAME
sp-rtrace - launch target binary in resource consumption tracing mode
or manage already started process(es).
.SH SYNOPSIS
sp-rtrace \fI<options>\fP [-x \fI<binary>\fP [\fI<arg>\fP] ... [\fI<arg>\fP]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sp-rtrace is a resource consumption tracing manager and data pre-processor.
As a tracing manager sp-rtrace can launch binaries in trace mode or 
enable/disable tracing for already launched processes.
.PP
As data pre-processor it accepts trace data from a pipe and either
stores it on the disk or writes it into a post-processor pipe.

Note that by default only allocation function backtraces are reported. To
get also de-allocation function backtraces use backtrace-all option (see below).
.SS Options affecting all modes:
.TP 
\fI--help\fP (\fI-h\fP)
Displays help information and exits.
.TP
\fI--list\fP (\fI-l\fP)
Lists all available tracing modules. The first column identifies the module 
type: P - preload module.
.TP
\fI--output-dir\fP=<path> (\fI-o\fP <path)
Specifies the output directory for storing trace data. 

By default the home directory is used. Specifying stdout will force
post-processor to use standard output.
.TP
\fI--manage-preproc\fP (\fI-m\fP)
Specifies the use of "managed mode".  Needed for tracing sub-processes
and in some other cases.

In managed mode invoked sp-rtrace exits after starting the traced
process, as the pre-processor sp-rtrace instance will then be launched
internally when needed.

In non-managed mode the main tracing module tries to connect to
a named pipe (/tmp/rtrace-<pid>) created by pre-processor. But if
tracing of the sub-processes is required, or there are problems in
establishing data connection through named pipe (e.g. because there
are intermediate processes which result in the started and traced
processes PIDs not matching), or traced process controls all terminal
output, managed mode needs to be used.

Because in managed mode sp-rtrace process used for the data
pre-processing is started by the tracing module, pre-processor
standard input can be used instead of named pipes.  Another difference
to non-managed mode is that stopping tracing in managed mode
terminates the pre-processor and causes SIGCHLD signal to be sent
the traced process, which can affect its behavior.

Managed mode must be used also when the target process needs to
enable/disable tracing by sending toggle signal to itself.

By default the managed mode (and tracing of child processes)
is not used.

.TP
\fI--toggle-signal\fP=<signal> (\fI-S\fP <signal>)
Specifies the tracing toggle signal. The main tracing module enables/disables
tracing upon receiving this signal.

By default SIGUSR1 is used, but it can be changed if it interferes with
the target process signal handling.
.TP
\fI--quiet\fP (\fI-q\fP)
Suppress warning messages. Note that command line parsing warnings
are not suppressed for options specified before this option.
.SS Process launching options:
.TP
\fI--start\fP (\fI-s\fP)
Enables tracing when the process is started.

By default process starts with tracing disabled, but it can be enabled later 
by sending the toggle signal. This option can be used when the process
startup needs to be traced.
.TP
\fI--postproc\fP=<options> (\fI-P\fP <options>)
Specifies post-processing options passed to the post-processor. 
If this option is specified, sp-rtrace spawns a sp-rtrace-postproc process
with the specified options and pipes the data to it. Otherwise sp-rtrace writes 
data to the rtrace-raw-<pid>[-<number>] file in the directory specified
by the \fI--output-dir\fP option.
.TP
\fI--preload\fP=<module1>[:<module2>[...:<moduleN>]]\fP (\fI-e\fP <module1>[:<module2>[...:<moduleN>]])
Specifies preload tracing modules (the main tracing module is preloaded by
default). When specifying multiple preload modules be careful to avoid
modules that interfere with each other.
Either full name of the module can be specified or its alias. The tracing
modules are named 'libsp-rtrace-<module>.so'. So both - --preload=memory
and --preload=libsp-rtrace-memory.so will specify the memory tracing 
module libsp-rtrace-memory.so

.TP
\fI--disable-packet-buffering\fP (\fI-B\fP)
Disables internal packet buffering. Normally the packets are stored in to
a 4KB buffer before sending to the next component (libsp-rtrace-main.so
-> sp-rtrace -> sp-rtrace-postproc). Use this option if real-time packet
delivery is required. Be aware that this can decrease the performance.

By default packet buffering is enabled.
.TP
\fI--disable-timestamps\fP (\fI-T\fP)
Disables timestamps in function call (FC) packets.

By default timestamps are enabled.
.TP
\fI--backtrace-all\fP (\fI-A\fP)
Enables backtrace reporting for all tracked functions, including
resource freeing. By default only resource allocation functions
backtraces are reported because de-allocation backtraces aren't
normally interesting and extra backtracing can add considerably
 overhead.
.TP
\fI--monitor\fP=<size1>[,<size2>...] (\fI-M\fP <size>[,<size2>...])
Report backtraces only for allocations having the specified resource
sizes. This option can be used after identifying sizes of leaking
allocations, to trace just those, if taking long backtraces for all
allocations would be too slow. Note that while the size list is
unlimited, specifying too many sizes will have a negative performance
impact.
.TP
\fI--backtrace-depth\fP=<depth>(\fI-b\fP <depth>)
The maximum number of frame return addresses in stack trace. 0 will disable
backtracing functionality. Reducing backtrace depth improves performance,
but gives less information of the function call origins.

By default, the backtrace depth is 10.
.TP
\fI--libunwind\fP (\fI-A\fP)
Forces to use libunwind for stack frame unwinding. Use it with
caution, as for example on ARM targets it uses more time and requires
debug symbols.

.SS Process managing options:
.TP
\fI--toggle\fP=<pid> (\fI-t\fP <pid>)
Sends toggle signal to the specified process.
.TP
\fI--follow-forks\fP (\fI-f\fP)
Toggles tracing also for all the child processes of the target process. By default
the toggle signal is sent only to the target process, but by using this option
it will be sent also to all the child processes.

.SH USAGE NOTES
The trace data from the target process to data pre-processor (sp-rtrace) is 
transferred over pipe managed by the main tracing module. In rare cases the
target process can try to close opened file descriptors (for example "lsof"
utility) resulting in tracing failure. In such case either re-enable tracing
with sp-rtrace -t <pid> or use functracer tool which produces similar output
with other means.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
sp-rtrace -s -e memory -x sample
Start 'sample' process with tracing enabled at start. The (binary) output data
will be stored to the current directory.
.TP
sp-rtrace -s -e memory -P '-r' -x sample
Additionally invoke sp-rtrace-postproc with options -r (resolve addresses)
and write results to the standard output (the default when post-processing
is used).
.TP
sp-rtrace -s -e memory -P '-l -c' -o $(pwd) -x sample
Invoke sp-rtrace-postproc with options -l -c (filter leaks and compress
backtraces, see sp-rtrace-postproc manual) and store the resulting (ASCII)
trace file to the current directory.
.TP
sp-rtrace -t $(pidof sample)
Toggle tracing for an already running 'sample' process.  If traced
process was started with '-m' or '-f', those options need to be used
also for toggling.
.TP
sp-rtrace -l
List all available tracing modules.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sp-rtrace-postproc (1),
.IR sp-rtrace-resolve (1),
.IR functracer (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
