.TH SP-RTRACE-PAGEMAP 1 "2011-03-1" "sp-trace-pagemap"
.SH NAME
sp-rtrace-pagemap - memory page usage/type statistics generator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
sp-rtrace-pagemap \fI<options>\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility generates memory page usage/type statistics from sp-rtrace
text reports. The reports must have page map data attached, which is done
by specifying also pagemap module to preload module list for sp-rtrace.

Report filters are used to strip events from sp-rtrace report based on
allocated/freed resource page types/memory areas. The filters can be
invoked only if no pagemap reports are requested. Otherwise filters are
ignored. To generate filtered pagemap report first apply the necessary
filter and then generate report from the filtered output.
.SS Options:
.TP 
 \fI--help\fP (\fI-h\fP)
Displays help information and exits.
.TP 
 \fI--help-filter\fP
Displays report filtering help information and exits.
.TP 
 \fI--help-pages\fP (\fI-h\fP)
Displays information abut page types and symbols used to specify them.
.TP
\fI--output-file\fP=<path> (\fI-o\fP <path)
Specifies the output file name.

By default the data is written to the standard output.
.TP
\fI--input-file\fP=<path> (\fI-i\fP <path>)
Specifies the input file.

By default the data is read from the standard input.
.TP
\fI--pages\fP (\fI-p\fP)
Generates page type statistics report. This report visualizes mapped 
memory areas by the contained page types.
.TP
\fI--density\fP (\fI-d\fP)
Generates allocation density statistics report. This report visualizes 
mapped memory areas by percentage of allocated memory per each page.
The input must be processed with sp-rtrace-postproc --leaks
(freed allocations removal) filter beforehand.
.TP
\fI--summary\fP (\fI-s\fP)
Appends page type summary at the end of the report. This summary lists
statistics about number of pages for each page type combination.
.TP
\fI--top\fP=<number> (\fI-T\fP <number>)
Number of top allocations per area. This option will append <number>
of top allocations events occured in the area to each area.
.TP
\fI--botton\fP=<number> (\fI-B\fP <number>)
Number of bottom allocations per area. This option will append <number>
of bottom allocations events occured in the area to each area.
.TP
\fI--filter-name\fP=<name> (\fI-N\fP <name>)
Filters input file by removing allocations/frees not done in the specified
area identified by the mapped file <name>.
.TP
\fI--filter-address\fP=<address> (\fI-A\fP <address>)
Filters input file by removing allocations/frees not done in the specified
area identified by an <address> belonging to it.
.TP
\fI--filter-page\fP=<type> (\fI-P\fP <type>)
Filters input file by removing allocations/frees not done in the pages of
specified <type>. This filter makes sense only when done on reports with
freed allocations removed(sp-rtrace-postproc --leaks option).

.SH USAGE NOTES
To successfully obtain pagemap data all modules must be stopped before
the data pipe from main tracking module is closed. To do that the tracing
must be stopped with sp-rtrace -t <pid> command rather then just aborted
with ^C (in the last case trace log would be produced without pagemap attachments).

Note that by default only root has read access to /proc/kpageflags file needed
by pagemap module. Therefore to sucessfully gather pagemap data user needs
either to launch the target process as root or grant read access to 
/proc/kpageflags for users. Usually if pagemap module has no accecss to
kpageflags file it will create zero size attachment and sp-rtrace will
generate warning message about attachment size being zero.


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
sp-rtrace -s -p pagemap:memory -P-o$(pwd) -x sample
Starts sample process with pagemap and memory modules and invoke post-processor
to produce text file required for pagemap post-processor (sp-rtrace-pagemap).
.TP
sp-rtrace -t $(pidof sample)
Stops tracing to produce sp-rtrace report and pagemap attachments.
.TP
sp-rtrace-pagemap -i <sp-rtrace text report> -p -s > pagemap.txt
Processes the obtained sp-rtrace log with pagemap page types and summary options.


.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sp-rtrace (1),
.IR sp-rtrace-postproc (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
