.TH SP-RTRACE-ALLOCMAP 1 "2012-06-05" "sp-rtrace"
.SH NAME
sp-rtrace-allocmap - visualize fragmentation of given list of allocations
.SH SYNOPSIS
sp-rtrace-allocmap [options] < allocationlist
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsp-rtrace-allocmap\fP outputs an ASCII map of which of the 4KB memory pages
within the area occupied by the allocation listed in the \fIallocationlist\fP
actually contain allocations.  If the map contains any "holes" these
are memory that could be returned back to the system if the allocations
were either freed or arranged better.
.PP
There's also an option to zoom into this map (use smaller block size)
so that you can see whether there's any fragmentation inside the 4KB
memory blocks (4KB is the minimum Linux and MMU HW memory page size).
.PP
As \fIsp-rtrace-allocmap\fP cannot directly process \fIsp-rtrace\fP
memory module data, this tool is normally used through
the \fIrtrace-allocmap\fP or \fIrtrace-allocmap-animate\fP scripts.
.PP
\fBNOTE\fP: Getting the Glibc heap information to the memory trace
requires setting SP_RTRACE_MALLINFO=1 environment variable for sp-rtrace.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-s\fP
Input data contains only single run (allocations are marked marked
differently for different runs)
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fIheap-top\fP
Top of the heap
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIkeepcost\fP
How much could be trimmed off the heap top
.TP
\fB-h\fP \fIaddress\fP
Highest allocated address in the use-case
(doesn't take into account size of the allocation)
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIaddress\fP
Lowest allocated address the use-case
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fIheap-base\fI
Bottom address of the heap
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpage size\fP
Page size to use in output in KB (1,2,4...)
.SH ALLOCATION LIST FORMAT
Allocation list format is "hex-address dec-size", for example:
.br
	$ sp-rtrace-allocmap -t 0x08443215 -k 131072
.br
	0x0834aa90 22
.br
	0x0834ab70 15
.PP
Heap base and top are given as hexadecimal and trim offset (keepcost)
as decimal. They can also be given before the allocs in the input data
like this:
.br
	# base=0x08100000
.br
	# top=0x0854aa90
.br
	# keepcost=131072
.PP
Input file overrides the command line options (it's parsed later) and 'base'
should be set before anything else (program doesn't check this, the results
will just be funny...).
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR rtrace-allocmap (1),
.IR rtrace-allocmap-animate (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007,2010,2012 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
