.TH SP-RTRACE-TIMELINE 1 "2011-02-07" "sp-rtrace"
.SH NAME
sp-rtrace-timeline - create resource usage total, activity, lifetime and histogram reports.
.SH SYNOPSIS
sp-rtrace-timeline -t|-a|-l|-c|-s <options> [-i <infile>] [-o <outfile>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sp-rtrace-timeline tool can be used to create resource allocation totals, 
activity, lifetime and histogram statistics reports:
.RS
.IP -t
Totals report displays total (non-freed) resource usage during the time period.
.PP
If total isn't close to the system reported process heap usage, heap is
most likely fragmented and needs to be analyzed with the sp-rtrace
pagemap tool.
.IP -a
Activity report displays resource allocation/deallocation activity per time
slice during the time period. The activity values usually are plotted
at slice/2 intervals.
.IP -l
Lifetime report displays resource 'life' from allocation time to
deallocation time.
.IP -c
Statistics report displays histogram containing number of allocations per
allocation size.
.PP
Allocation counts are useful for detecting code doing potentially
redundant allocations, these can be further analyzed with
.I rtrace-calltree
script and its
.I --size-range
option.
.IP -s
Statistics report displays histogram containing total size of allocations per
allocation size.
.RE

Note that it's possible to generate multiple reports at the same time
by specifying more than one report generation option (-t, -a, -l -c, -s).
In this mode the output file (-o) should be always specified and the
report filenames will have the follwing format:
.br
<filename>-<totals|activity|lifetime|histogram-(count|size)>.<eps|png>
.br
where <filename> is the specified output file.

.SS Options:
.TP 
\fI--slice\fP=<value> (\fI-s\fP <value>)
The time slice in milliseconds for the activity report. By default 1/20th
of the total time period (X axis range) is used. 
.TP
\fI-eps\fP (\fI-e\fP)
Generates postscript (eps) output file. By default png file is generated.
.TP
\fI--wxt\fP (\fI-w\fP)
Displays interactive report window. This output type allows to zoom into custom
parts of the report.
(Supported in gnuplot v4.4 and above).
.TP 
\fI--in\fP=<filename> (\fI-i\fP <filename>)
Specifies the input file name. By default the standard input is used.
.TP 
\fI--out\fP=<filename> (\fI-o\fP <filename>)
Specifies the output file name. By default the standard output is used.
.TP 
\fI--working-dir\fP=<directory> (\fI-W\fP <directory>)
Specifies the working (temporary) directory name. By default the directory of
output file is used.
.TP 
\fI--logscale-size\fP=<base> (\fI-L\fP <base>)
Set logarithmic scaling value for lifetime report size axis. By default 
logarithmic scaling with base 10 is used. Specifying base less or equal
to 1 disables logarithmic scaling of size Y axis.
.TP 
\fI--scalex\fP=<scale> 
Scales the output report X axis size by the % \fIscale\fP value.
.TP 
\fI--scaley\fP=<scale> 
Scales the output report Y axis size by the % \fIscale\fP value.
.TP 
\fI--scale\fP=<scale> 
Scales the output report size by the % \fIscale\fP value. --scale=<value>
is equivalent to --scalex=<value> --scaley=<value> options.
.TP
\fI--filter-<type>\fP=<filter>
Specifies input data filter. The filter <type> can be \fIsize\fP, \fIindex\fP or \fItime\fP
while tile <filter> accepts a pair of values specifying the start/end
constraints: [<start>]-[<end>]. If the start/end value is omitted the filter matches
all values less than/greather than. The value syntax depends on the filter
type:
.RS
.IP size)
filters events by allocation size. The size parameter accepts postfix
k or m, specifying kilobytes or megabytes. Size filter examples: 
.nf
  100-200  : from 100 to 200 bytes
  10k-     : greater than 10 kbytes
  -1m      : less than 1 mbyte
.fi
.IP index)
filters events by their index.
.IP time)
filters events by allocation/deallocation timestamp. The timestamp format is
[+][HH:][MM:][SS][.sss] where: HH - hours, MM - minutes, SS - seconds, sss - milliseconds
and '+' specifies relative timestamp. Relative timestamps are counted either from 
the report beginning (for filter start values) or from the first event passing 
the other filters (for filter end values). Time filter examples:
.nf
  10.5-12       : from 10.5 seconds to 12 seconds
  10:00-+30     : from 10 minutes to 10 minutes 30 seconds
  +1:00-+1:00   : from 1 minute since log start to 1 minute duration 
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR rtrace-calltree,
.IR rtrace-graphs-overview
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License v2 included with the software.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
